# Enhanced Object Detection Using Image Fusion


Target/Object detection is one of the main tasks of computer vision and it is extensively used in areas such as driverless cars, face recognition, road detection, medical image processing and human–computer interaction. Understanding and significant analysis of image information in most of the fields has amplified the demand for fast and effective object detection algorithms using cutting-edge technologies. The features extracted by traditional target detection methods have obvious limitations. Poor illumination, unusual aspect ratios, complex backgrounds and dense situations make the target detection more challenging. To sum up, blurred and noisy images are not suitable for target detection and an insufficient object instance signifies that contribution to enhancement in target detection is strongly recommended.

Hence, an efficient single shot framework is designed to detect objects in images with variable scale feature fusion. The features and spatial frequency are utilized to measure activity level, which plays crucial role in fusion task. The feature maps from different layers are fused through deep learning encoder-decoder architecture to predict the detection results.   Especially for small objects, low-level features with fine details and high-level features with semantic information are fully explored for detection tasks.  The fusion strategy module is introduced to improve the performance by fusing features of different layers. 

This project demonstrated the viability of combination of unsupervised learning and traditional image processing algorithms. Finally, various performance metrics are used to evaluate the method and compared with Discrete Wavelet Transformation and Guided Filtering methods. From the results, the proposed method enhanced the ability to express features and achieved better results than other image fusion methods. Thus an efficient method based on the features of images and the properties of the objects is implemented in this project to enhance object detection with image fusion process.
